---
layout: post
author: Matchi-chan
title: 'I need to get something off my chest.'
---

Today, I'm going to rant.

<!--break-->

Rant about something very talked about in the technology world currently: design.

I use computers every day. I can't imagine my life without them. But as of the past few months, I've been wishing I never got into it at all.

And it's all because of UI design.

The thing I hate the absolute <i>most</i> about design in mobile programs and websites of the past year is, this notion that profile icons/avatars must be circle shaped. Not only is this the <i>ugliest thing in the world</i>, I didn't ask for the icons I use to be cropped like that, and the argument of "they look better with a person's face" is completely moot as I have NEVER used a picture of myself as an icon on any service. Cute anime girls forever. Also, some images seriously lose meaning when cropped to a circle [such as these](http://www.pixiv.net/member_illust.php?mode=medium&illust_id=27453172). It's so fucking ugly it's so fucking ugly it's so fucking ugly I feel like the only person who wants them to go back to the fiery depths of hell

I live in constant fear that a website or mobile program I use is going to change to using circle avatars, and I have no choice and that is not fair. Such things happened with Skype and recently, Textra. (An SMS program I fell in love with, but now I'm just pissed at it). I'm fearing for my life that Plume is going to redesign, I do not want to look for another Android twitter client as they all suck and use the cancer for avatars now. There is nothing wrong with squares or rounded squares for profile icons. Sure, your UI icons for actions can be circles, but not the icons we use to represent ourselves. I hate it. <i>I hate it so much.</i> If you want me to never install or use your program, go ahead. Make me explode with anger as that's what I do upon seeing one of the fucking things. Thank the heavens above that Tweetbot 3 for iOS has a toggle (and a dark theme too <3). All programs should have a toggle for avatar shapes as it solves the problem entirely, but you know, NONE OF THEM DO. THANKS GOOGLE AND APPLE. These fucking icons are one of my reasons for never updating my phone past Kitkat after I went up to London for I/O Extended and saw Android die, so I don't have to look at an ugly circle in my STATUS BAR among other things including those ugly software buttons and no dark themes anywhere. I can write many reasons why I hate what I saw of Android L, I could write a whole other post. The TV/car stuff was pretty cool though but I don't see any reason to have it. I'm never updating my Macbook past Mavericks either as I am not dealing with iOS7 on my computer.

The other thing I hate about current design is this insane fetish for flat design and minimalism. It was never my thing in the first place. (I loved the look of iOS6.) First, Microsoft did it with Metro, and that wasn't well received. Thank heavens, I said. And then, Apple did it with iOS7, and now Google have done it with Material Design. All of them I have issues with, but I can cope with iOS7 the most (fucking wish it had a system-wide dark theme though). The knock on effect is that now EVERY program and website now looks the exact same as iOS7 and MD. Now, this may not be a bad thing to you, but I think it is. I hate it. First off, plain white backgrounds are never a good idea. They're bad for my eyes and can give me headaches, also waste battery having the backlight on. This is why I always use a dark theme if it's available, which is something else the majority of design lacks, because of course, why would it be considerate. If my only choice to find out what something does in your program is to press it, because your icon is so minimal it's just a shape, and I'm not on a computer so I can't hover the mouse cursor over it for a tooltip, there's a problem. It took ages to realise what the Share button in Android meant. Standard symbols, guys, which at least iOS7 does. My other issue is like I said before, how everything looks EXACTLY THE SAME. Of course, you can't come up with your own design, so you just copy Google and Apple or use Bootstrap and do these "alternating panel" website designs. Real cool guys. If I can cross out all the content on your website/program and not know what it is, that's really sad. A recognisable layout is important, like Youtube for example, which I could do the above and know what website I'm looking at. Japanese websites are stuck in the 90s, but at least they're about laying out the content well. If you're cutting down on useful customisation and features because of "simplicity" you can fuck right off. If your interface doesn't have unique character, I have no reason to remember it. (I like my UIs like I like my Vocaloids: unique.) I don't think some devs realise that other people have to use what they make and every person has different tastes. Sure, Gingerbread UI isn't something I want to use all the time, but one program I use all the time uses it: a little battery percent widget with one of my waifus on it. My point is, if it's useful and does its job, I couldn't care if it looks terribly outdated. You don't need to redesign your program just because you can.

Minimalism in it's current state is just obnoxious. Don't do it. And if you must, lay it out properly for god's sake and don't look like everything else. If you do a minimalism+circle icons combo, I'm sorry to say, I can't close the program or website fast enough and remember to never visit again.

There was nothing wrong with Holo, Google. Holo Dark is <3 and if I'm ever not stupid enough, I'll be making my programs with that.

I'm not saying we should go back to the 90s and put <blink> and <marquee> everywhere, but actually just put some effort into your design. I buy a £340 phone (or a £700 iPhone) and what do I look at on it? Program and webpage design that I can do in 10 minutes in MS Paint. In the end though, it all boils down to my hate of change.

What really hurts is I feel like the only person who hates all this, so I can't talk to anyone about it which is why I'm writing this.

Last thing: the word "app".